
"They're not my people," whispered Avery.

They were caught, then, in a strange silence. Soundless wheeling
rainbows brushed the new earth, glimmered in the brassy pools. Far up
on the black crystal of the vault the Sun-child pulsed and breathed.
And there was stillness, like the morning of creation.

Eric Falken took one slow, taut step, and said, "Who are you?"

The answer whispered across the raw red earth.

"Miner Hilton, the son of Gantry."

       *       *       *       *       *

Falken raised the blaster, forgotten in his hand. Miner Hilton, who had
been Paul Avery, looked at it and then at Falken's face, a shield of
dark iron over cold, terrible flame.

He shivered, but he didn't move, nor speak.

"You know a way to fight that thing," said Falken, very softly, in his
throat. "I want to kill you. But you know a way."

"I--I don't know. I can't...." Golden tortured eyes went to Sheila
Moore and stayed there, with a dreadful lost intensity.

Falken's white teeth showed. "You want to tell, Miner Hilton. You want
to help us, don't you? Because of Sheila!"

Young Hilton's face flamed red, and then went white. Sheila cried
sharply,

"Eric, don't! Can't you see he's suffering?"

But Falken remembered Kitty, and the babies who were born and died on
freezing rock, without sun or shelter. He said,

"She'd never have you, Hilton. And I'll tell you this. Perhaps I can't
force out of you what you know. But if I can't, I swear to God I'll
kill you with my own hands."

He threw back his head and laughed suddenly. "Gantry Hilton's son--in
love with an Unregenerate!"

"Wait, Eric." Sheila Moore put a hand on his arm to stop him, and went
forward. She took Miner Hilton by the shoulders and looked up at him,
and said,

"It isn't so impossible, Miner Hilton. Not if what I think is true."

Falken stared at her in stunned amazement, beyond speech or movement.
Then his heart was torn with sudden pain, and he knew, with the clarity
of utter truth, that he loved Sheila Moore.

She said to Miner Hilton, "Why did you do this? And how?"

Young Hilton's voice was flat and strained. He made a move as though to
take her hands from his shoulders, but he didn't. He stared across her
red-gold head, at Falken.

"Something had to be done to stamp out the Unregenerates. They're a
barrier to complete peace, a constant trouble. Eric Falken is their
god, as--as Sheila said. If we could trap him, the rest would be easy.
We could cure his people.

"My father couldn't do it himself. He's old, and too well-known. He
sent me, because mine is the only other brain that could stand what I
had to do. My father has trained me well.

"To get me by the psycho-search, my father gave me a temporary brain
pattern. After I was accepted as a refugee, I established mental
contact with him...."

"Mental contact," breathed Falken. "That was it. That's why you were
always so tired, why I couldn't shake pursuit."

"Go on," said Sheila, with a queer gentleness.

Hilton stared into space, without seeing.

"I almost had you in Losangles, Falken, but you were too quick for the
Guards. Then, when we were trapped at Mercury, I tried to make you
sleep. I was leading those ships, too.

"But I was tired, and you fought too well, you and Sheila. After that
we were too close to the Sun. My thought waves wouldn't carry back to
the ships."

He looked at Falken, and then down at Sheila's thin face.

"I didn't know there were people like you," he whispered. "I didn't
know men could feel things, and fight for them like that. In my world,
no one wants anything, no one fights, or tries.... And I have no
strength. I'm afraid."

Sheila's green eyes caught his, compelled them.

"Leave that world," she said. "You see it's wrong. Help us to make it
right again."

In that second, Falken saw what she was doing. He was filled with
admiration, and joy that she didn't really care for Hilton--and then
doubt, that perhaps she did.

Miner Hilton closed his eyes. He struck her hands suddenly away and
stepped back, and his blaster came ready into his hand.

"I can't," he whispered. His lips were white. "My father has taught me.
He trusts me. And I believe in him. I must!"

Hilton looked where the glow of the Sun-child pulsed against ebon rock.
"The Unregenerates won't trouble us any more."

He raised the muzzle of his blaster to his head.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was then that Falken remembered his was empty. He dropped it and
sprang. He shocked hard against Hilton's middle, struck him down,
clawing for his gun arm. But Hilton was heavy, and strong.

He rolled away and brought his barrel lashing down across Falken's
temple. Falken crouched, dazed and bleeding, in the mud.

He laughed, and said, "Why don't you kill me, Hilton?"

Hilton looked from Falken's uncowed, snarling face to Sheila. The
blaster slipped suddenly from his fingers. He covered his face with his
hands and was silent, shivering.

Falken said, with curious gentleness, "That proves it. You've got to
have faith in a thing, to kill or die for it."

Hilton whispered, "Sheila!" She smiled and kissed him, and Falken
looked steadfastly away, wiping the blood out of his eyes.

Hilton grasped suddenly at the helmet of his vac-suit. He talked,
rapidly, as he worked.

"The Sun-child creates with the force of its mind. It understands
telekinesis, the control of the basic electrical force of the universe
by thought, just as the wise men of our earth understood it. The men
who walked on the water, and moved mountains, and healed the sick.

"We can only attack it through its mind. We'll try to weaken its
thought-force, destroy anything it sends against us."

His fingers flashed between the helmet radio and the repair kit which
is a part of every vac suit, using wires, spare parts, tools.

"There," said Hilton, after a long time. "Now yours."

Falken gave him his helmet. "Won't the Sun-child know what we're
doing?" he asked, rather harshly.

Hilton shook his fair head. "It's weak now. It won't think about us
until it has fed. Perhaps two hours more."

"Can you read its thoughts?" demanded Falken sourly.

"A very little," said Hilton, and Sheila laughed, quietly.

Hilton worked feverishly. Falken watched his deft fingers weaving a
bewildering web of wires between the three helmets, watched him shift
and change, tune and adjust. He watched the sun-child throb and sparkle
as the strength of the Sun sank into it. He watched Sheila Moore,
staring at Hilton with eyes of brilliant green.

He never knew how much time passed. Only that the Sun-child gave a
little rippling sigh of light and floated down. The fissure closed
above it. Sheila caught her breath, sharp between her teeth.

Hilton rose. He said rapidly.

"I've done the best I can. It's crude, but the batteries are strong.
The helmets will pick up and amplify the energy-impulses of our brains.
We'll broadcast a single negative impulse, opposed to every desire the
Sun-thing has.

"Stay close together, because if the wires are broken between the
helmets we lose power, and it's going to take all the strength we have
to beat that creature."

Falken put on his helmet. Little copper discs, cut from the sheet in
the repair kit and soldered to wires with Hilton's blaster, fitted to
his temples. Through the vision ports he could see the web of wires
that ran from the three helmets through a maze of spare grids and a
condenser, and then into the slender shaft of a crude directional
antenna.

Hilton said, "Concentrate on the single negative, _No_."

Falken looked at the lovely shimmering cloud, coming toward them.

"It won't be easy," he said grimly, "to concentrate."

Sheila's eyes were savage and feral, watching that foam of living
flame. Hilton's face was hidden. He said,

"Switch on your radios."

Power hummed from the batteries. Falken felt a queer tingle in his
brain.

The Sun-child hovered over them. Its mind-voice was silent, and Falken
knew that the electrical current in his helmet was blanking his own
thoughts.

They linked arms. Falken set his brain to beating out an impulse, like
a radio signal, opposing the negative of his mind to the positive of
the Sun-child's.

       *       *       *       *       *

Falken stood with the others on spongy, yielding soil. Dim plant-shapes
rose on all sides as far as he could see, forming an impenetrable
tangle of queer geometric shapes that made him reel with a sense of
spatial distortion.

Overhead, in a sea-green sky, three tiny suns wheeled in mad orbits
about a common center. There was a smell in the air, a rotting stench
that was neither animal or vegetable.

Falken stood still, pouring all his strength into that single mental
command to stop.

The tangled geometric trees wavered momentarily. Dizzily, through
the wheeling triple suns, the Sun-child showed, stabbed through with
puzzled, angry scarlet.

The landscape steadied again. And the ground began to move.

It crawled in small hungry wavelets about Falken's feet. The musky,
rotten smell was heavy as oil. Sheila and Hilton seemed distant and
unreal, their faces hidden in the helmets.

Falken gripped them together and drove his brain to its task. He knew
what this was. The reproduction of another world, remembered from the
Sun-child's youth. If they could only stand still, and not think about
it....

He felt the earth lurch upward, and guessed that the Sun-child had
raised its creation off the floor of the cavern.

The earth began to coil away from under his feet.

       *       *       *       *       *

For a giddy instant Falken saw the true world far below, and the
Sun-child floating in rainbow light.

It was angry. He could tell that from its color. Then suddenly the
anger was drowned in a swirl of golden motes.

It was laughing. The Sun-child was laughing.

Falken fought down a sharp despair. A terrible fear of falling
oppressed him. He heard Sheila scream. The world closed in again.

Sheila Moore looked at him from between two writhing trees.

He hadn't felt her go. But she was there. Hairy branches coiled around
her, tore her vac-suit. She shrieked....

Falken cried out and went forward. Something held him. He fought it
off, driven by the agony in Sheila's cry.

Something snapped thinly. There was a flaring shock inside his helmet.
He fell, and staggered up and on, and the hungry branches whipped away
from the girl.

She stood there, her thin white body showing through the torn vac-suit,
and laughed at him.

He saw Miner Hilton crawling dazed on the living ground, toward the
thing that looked like Sheila and laughed with mocking golden motes in
its eyes.

A vast darkness settled on Falken's soul. He turned. Sheila Moore
crouched where he had thrown her from him, in his struggle to help the
lying shell among the trees.

He went and picked her up. He said to Miner Hilton,

"Can we fix these broken wires?"

Hilton shook his head. The shock of the breaking seemed to have
steadied him a little. "No," he said. "Too much burned out."

"Then we're beaten." Falken turned a bitter, snarling face to the green
sky, raised one futile fist and shook it. Then he was silent, looking
at the others.

Sheila Moore said softly, "This is the end, isn't it?"

Falken nodded. And Miner Hilton said,

"I'm not afraid, now." He looked at the trees that hung over them,
waiting, and shook his head. "I don't understand. Now that I know I'm
going to die, I'm not afraid."

Sheila's green eyes were soft and misty. She kissed Hilton, slowly and
tenderly, on the lips.

Falken turned his back and stared at the twisted ugly trees. He didn't
see them. And he wasn't thinking of the Unregenerates and the world
he'd won and then lost.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sheila's hand touched him. She whispered, "Eric...."

Her eyes were deep, glorious green. Her pale starved face had the
brittle beauty of wind-carved snow. She held up her arms and smiled.

Falken took her and buried his gypsy face in the raw gold of her hair.

"How did you know?" he whispered. "How did you know I loved you?"

"I just--knew."

"And Hilton?"

"He doesn't love me, Eric. He loves what I stand for. And anyway ... I
can say this now, because we're going to die. I've loved you since I
first saw you. I love you more than Tom, and I'd have died for him."

Hungry tree branches reached for them, barely too short. Buds were
shooting up underfoot. But Falken forgot them, the alien life and the
wheeling suns that were only a monstrous dream, and the Sun-child who
dreamed them.

For that single instant he was happy, as he had not been since Kitty
was lost.

Presently he turned and smiled at Hilton, and the wolf look was gone
from his face. Hilton said quietly.

"Maybe she's right, about me. I don't know. There's so much I don't
know. I'm sorry I'm not going to live to find out."

"We're all sorry," said Falken, "about not living." A sudden sharp
flare lighted his eyes. "Wait a minute!" he whispered. "There may be a
chance...."

He was taut and quivering with terrible urgency, and the buds grew and
yearned upward around their feet.

"You said we could only attack it through its mind. But there may be
another way. Its memories, its pride...."

He raised his scarred gypsy face to the green sky and shouted,

"You, Child of the Sun! Listen to me! You have beaten us. Go ahead and
kill us. But remember this. You're a child of the Sun, and we're only
puny humans, little ground-crawlers, shackled with weakness and fear.

"But we're greater than you! Always and forever, greater than you!"

The writhing trees paused, the buds faltered in their hungry growth.
Faintly, very faintly, the landscape flickered. Falken's voice rose to
a ringing shout.

"You were a child of the Sun. You had the galaxy for a toy, all the
vast depths of space to play in. And what did you do? You sealed
yourself like a craven into a black tomb, and lost all your greatness
in the whimsies of a wicked child.

"You were afraid of your destiny. You were too weak for your own
strength. We fought you, we little humans, and our strength was so
great that you had to beat us by a lying trick.

"You can read our minds, Sun-child. Read them. See whether we fear you.
And see whether we respect you, you who boast of your parentage and
dream dreams of lost glory, and hide in a dark hole like a frightened
rat!"

       *       *       *       *       *

For one terrible moment the alien world was suffused with a glare of
scarlet--anger so great that it was almost tangible. Then it greyed
and faded, and Falken could see Sheila's face, calm and smiling, and
Hilton's fingers locked in hers.

The ground dropped suddenly. Blurred trees writhed against a fading
sky, and the suns went out in ebon shadow. Falken felt clean earth
under him. The rotting stench was gone.

He looked up. The Sun-child floated overhead, under the rocky vault.
They were back in the cavern world.

The Sun-child's voice spoke in his brain, and its fires were a
smoldering, dusky crimson.

"What was that you said, human?"

"Look into my mind and read it. You've thrown away your greatness. We
had little, compared to you, but we kept it. You've won, but your very
winning is a shame to you, that a child of the Sun should stoop to
fight with little men."

The smoldering crimson burned and grew, into glorious wicked fire that
was sheer fury made visible. Falken felt death coiling to strike him
out of that fire. But he faced it with bitter, mocking eyes, and he was
surprised, even then, that he wasn't afraid.

And the raging crimson fire faded and greyed, was quenched to a
trembling mist of sad, dim mauves.

"You are right," whispered the Sun-child. "And I am shamed."

The ashes of burned-out flame stirred briefly. "I think I began to
realize that when you fought me so well. You, Falken, who let your love
betray you, and then shook your fist at me. I could kill you, but I
couldn't break you. You made me remember...."

Deep in the core of the Sun-child there was a flash of the old proud
scarlet.

"I am a child of the Sun, with the galaxy to play with. I have so
nearly forgotten. I have tried to forget, because I knew that what I
did was weak and shameful and craven. But you haven't let me forget,
Falken. You've forced me to see, and know.

"You have made me remember. Remember! I am very old. I shall die soon,
in open space. But I wish to see the Sun unveiled, and play again among
the stars. The hunger has torn me for eons, but I was afraid. Afraid of
death!

"Take this world, in payment for the pain I caused you. My creature
will return here in Falken's ship and vanish on the instant of landing.
And now...."

The scarlet fire burned and writhed. Shafts of joyous gold pierced
through it. The Sun-child trembled, and its little foaming flames, were
sheer glory, the hearts of Sun-born opals.

It rose in the rainbow air, higher and higher, rushing in a cloud of
living light toward the black crystal of the vault.

Once more there was a blinding flash and a quick sharp rush of air.
Faintly, in Falken's mind, a voice said,

"Thank you, human! Thank you for waking me from a dying sleep!"

A last wild shout of color on the air. And then it was gone, into open
space and the naked fire of the Sun, and the rocky roof was whole.

Three silent people stood on the raw red earth of a new world.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Child of the Sun, by Leigh Brackett

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHILD OF THE SUN ***

***** This file should be named 62037.txt or 62037.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/2/0/3/62037/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
